{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Calibri;}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1440\margr1440\margt1080\margb1080
\fs24
\b Management Summary - NIST 800-53 Main Controls Assessment\b0\par
\par
\b Scope\b0\par
This summary covers the six primary NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5 controls represented in the repository's sample assessment set: AC-2, AU-2, IR-1, IA-5, SC-7, and SI-4.\par
\par
\b Workbooks Issued\b0\par
IAM Team Workbook: AC-2 and IA-5.\par
Security Operations Workbook: AU-2 and SI-4.\par
Incident Response and GRC Workbook: IR-1.\par
Platform and Network Workbook: SC-7.\par
\par
\b Executive View of Current Risk\b0\par
1. Identity and access controls are the most material gap area because the application accepts requests without enforced authentication and can default to anonymous user identity.\par
2. Audit logging and system monitoring are not implemented as mature operational controls in the application and appear limited to console-style logging and future-state monitoring guidance.\par
3. Boundary protection may be inherited from deployment infrastructure, but the repository does not presently evidence enough managed interface and traffic control design to satisfy a manual assessment.\par
4. Incident response governance artifacts for the service itself are not clearly present, even though the application can generate response plans as content.\par
\par
\b Highest Priority Remediation Themes\b0\par
1. Implement authentication, unique user identity, and role-based access control.\par
2. Establish structured audit logging with defined event coverage and retention.\par
3. Integrate monitoring, telemetry, alerting, and escalation workflows.\par
4. Produce adopted incident response policy and procedures for the service.\par
5. Document and enforce boundary protection architecture, including CORS restrictions and managed interfaces.\par
\par
\b Team Ownership\b0\par
IAM Team: AC-2, IA-5.\par
Security Operations Team: AU-2, SI-4.\par
Incident Response and GRC Team: IR-1.\par
Platform and Network Team: SC-7.\par
\par
\b Suggested Cadence\b0\par
Week 1: Evidence collection and initial pass fail scoring.\par
Week 2: Gap confirmation and remediation owner assignment.\par
Week 3: Leadership review of critical and high-priority findings.\par
Week 4: Remediation plan approval and milestone tracking.\par
\par
\b Leadership Decisions Needed\b0\par
1. Confirm whether infrastructure controls will be assessed as inherited, shared, or system-specific.\par
2. Approve target-state authentication and logging architecture.\par
3. Assign accountable owners and due dates for critical findings.\par
\par
\b Summary Status\b0\par
Assessment Sponsor: ____________________\par
Program Manager: ____________________\par
Review Date: ____________________\par
Overall Rating: ____________________\par
Comments: ________________________________________________________________\par
}